[MUSIC]
>> Kyle: So that's it for 2.js.
>> Kyle: Let's go ahead and
create 3.js and helloworld3.js.
So same thing, do a save as.
>> Kyle: Helloworld3.js.
And a save as 3.js.
Okay, now update your 3.js so
that you don't get yourself confused.
Make sure it says 3.js.
Make sure you're loading
the helloworld3 module.
Now before we do anything else with
the hello3 module, we're gonna modify it.
But before we do anything else,
I want to talk to you a little bit about,
a little bit about the ecosystem
around modules, okay?
Cuz we've already talked about the idea
that I could do NPM install and
bring in somebody else's module,
like when you're in NPM
installed my asequence library or
when we brought in minimist or whatever.
Where those things come from is there's
a central repository called NPMJS.org.
Central repository where people
that create libraries for
other people to use can
publish their libraries to.
And every time I make an update,
I publish a new version of my
asequence library up to the NPM
repository and that NPM command
line tool is configured to go find the
latest version of it, and pull that down.
So any time I make an update,
the next time somebody asks for
it, they'll get the updated version.
And of course it installs
the files in the correct location.
What if we wanted to turn
our helloworld into a package
that we could publish to NPM?
What would be the requisite steps?
Okay, now we're not actually going to
publish because our helloworld module
the way we've named it if you will.
Our helloworld module is a, [COUGH]
excuse me, is that name is already taken.
[LAUGH] There's already
a helloworld module on npm.
So we won't to actually do the final
step which is npm publish to push, but
I'll give you a sense of what the setup
steps are so that you understand
if you created yourself a little utility
and you wanted to make it available for
others or even if you didn't
care that nobody else used it.
You just wanted it up in a repose so
that it was easy for
you to deploy yourself
to your own services.
You can push it up into the npm refill.
Of course, the more social you are,
the more you let other people use it,
the better the the ecosystem is.
But what would it take for
us to make this helloworld?
We don't need to make any changes
to the internal contents of it,
because it's a functional thing.
It may not be quite the right way that you
wanna provide it yet, so we could make
updates, but what we really need to do is
configuration outside of our file, okay?
So in that same directory,
wherever we're gonna store our file
that we're gonna turn into a module,
we need to create a package.json file
that describes what our module is.
And we need that package.json file to
be in the root of our npm package.
In this case,
it's my same exercises directory but
you would probably do something
like mkdir helloworld and
have your whole helloworld module in
its own subdirectory, most likely.
For our simplification purposes,
we're just gonna leave it all
in this main directory, okay?
So what we really need is we
need a package.json file.
Now I'm gonna cheat cuz I don't like
remembering the syntax of package.json's
but there's utilities out there.
Npm has an init, there's an npm
init that will build them for
you and
there's websites that will build them.
I'm just gonna pull in the one that I've
already created in the solutions directory
here and
you can do the same if you want to but
I want us to look at that package file and
understand what it does.
>> Kyle: So you can either pull it in or
you can create this new from scratch
yourself, but it's a JSON file.
So it needs to be valid JSON syntax,
all the keys need to be
surrounded with quotes and
we have string values and arrays.
But let's point out a couple of important
things, very important characteristics.
This is kind of like almost the bare
minimum that you'd have to have,
to have a valid package JSON.
We need to give it a name property and
that name is really important
because that name is the unique identifier
for that module in the npm registry.
Which means you have to pick
a name that nobody else's picked.
If you try to override it then
there's going to be collisions and
it's not going to work.
So I couldn't actually publish this one
because there is already one called
helloworld.
If I were to make it
like helloworld3 there's
maybe a chance that I could publish it.
But, we're not going to do that.
So, I've got "helloworld", is my name.
The next most important
field is the version number,
because you have to manually
version your modules,
an npm uses what's called sim-verse,
semantic versioning.
So, the traditional way that you see
people dealing with semantic versioning
is that there's a major,
and a minor version.
And, then this patch version.
And, then optionally you
can have this fourth level,
if there's trivial updates
that you're making.
Usually, I use those if I update
the documentation for a project.
I haven't changed anything
about its functionality but
I've updated the documentation.
So I bump it from a to b, or b to c.
Sometimes if I make a little minor
bug fix that nobody worries about or
a typo fix or something, I'll bump those.
But most of the time if you make
a functional change to your code you would
bump the patch version from 0.0.1
to 0.0.2 for instance, okay?
Now, the versions are really,
really important, because they need to be
strictly ascending, which means you need
to make sure that you're always bumping
it up rather than bumping it down.
And also, once you publish that version,
like if we were to publish 0,
01A, we can never ever publish
this same name and version again.
So if we wanna update it,
we have to bump the version.
We have to at least bump it to -B or
0.02 or something.
They don't allow you to overwrite
an existing version of a module anymore.
He used to be able to do a force and
they just recently did away with that.
So now You have to bump
the version if you want to do it.
Now, I'll leave you as
a sort of a homework for
you to read more about read about SemVer,
read about semantic versioning,
the npm website has a help item
all about semantic versioning.
But the basic idea is
that you don't make any
breaking API changes in
your patch versions.
And if you make breaking API changes,
you would bump at least the minor version,
if not the major version.
Major versions are usually a complete
rewrite, or a whole new set of features,
or a whole new way of doing things.
So, you don't bump those very often.
That's just the typical kind of guideline,
or the philosophic guideline for it.
There's a lot of gray area in terms
of when should I bump the minor or
the patch or whatever.
Everybody has different opinions on it but
there's a bunch of reading that you can
do about SemVer, if you're interested.
Now the description field not technically
required, but it's a good idea to go and
put a description field cuz otherwise
nobody's gonna know what it does.
The next most important one is
this main key on line five.
We have to tell it what is our main entry
point file in our module sub directory.
Now in this case, I just have one
file it's the helloworld3.js.
But most of the time you have non-trivial
modules that may have dozens of files in
a lib directory and
you may build things and
put different versions of it you
need to have a main entry point that
when they use your module and
they do a require and
they use the name of your module,
this is the file that it's gonna pull in.
Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: There is a question
online maybe some material they
want to have some text highlighter
you're using your JSON there.
>> Kyle: So
this is the sublime text editor.
Sublime doesn't come with a very
good JSON coloration in it, so
I did a custom color configuration for
JSON.
>> Speaker 2: So you rolled it yourself?
>> Kyle: Yes, but
I didn't roll my own syntax highlighter,
I rolled my own color theme for JSON,
because the color scheme that I'm using
by default didn't have a good one.
>> Kyle: [COUGH] All right
>> Kyle: So
that name is the main entry point and so
that you have to decide where is the main
entry point when somebody requires my
file, what are they gonna be requiring in.
Keywords not strictly necessary
although it helps for
your stuff to be found more,
you should definitely put in an author and
definitely put in a license
attribute as well.
Other keys that you can put in here that
you're probably gonna want to put in if
your module is stored up on GitHub,
you're gonna wanna put in a key here for
the repository and
you can link it to your GitHub repository.
You can link in information about
where people should file bugs,
you can link in information
about dependencies.
If your module requires other modules
that wouldn't be built in, like if
our module required minimist, which it
doesn't cuz that's our main program but
if we required minimist, then we would
want to list the dependencies list.
And the dependencies list,
>> Kyle: You
would say something like minimist and then
you have to tell it what version you want.
So you got to know what version you're on.
The easiest way to do that is
to say node_modules/minimist and
look at their package
JSON to see what version.
There's other npm command lines.
So we're on point 0.0.8, right?
Well, that means that I
want at least point 0.0.8.
But how do I decide?
Do I only want that or what if they
released an 0.0.9, would I want that?
What if they released an 0.1 or
a 1.0, would I want that?
So the typical thing that people will do,
you put a tilde here.
And what that says is,
I want all of the update,
all of the patch updates, but
I don't want any minor or
major version updates because those
might be API breaking changes.
So I wanna manually decide that I
need to up my dependency list, but
if at some point he releases and
0.0.9 or an 0.0.10 or 11 or something,
we're always doing is just making little
patch bug fixes, then it's okay for
you to go an update because I'm not
worried about the API compatibility.
So typically, people put that
little tilde in front of it to say
give me only the patch updates but
not the major and minor version of things.
So, that's how we'd list our dependencies.
There's other keys in here and I'll leave
it as your homework to kinda go and
read about, but we need to construct
ourselves a package JSON somewhat similar
to this file and when we do an npm
publish, it's gonna look for
this file so it knows how to package it up
knows what version to use and all that.
So it's a required element here.